Our next challenge is to include
a mission statement on the website.
This is gonna be placed just above the
collections portion of the webpage that
you just wrote.
And there I have two alternatives here for
you.
If you are new to Flexbox, Layout,
CSS, that type of thing, I have this
alternative version here, which I'll lead
with that I'd like you to give this a try.
So notice here in the desktop screenshot
that we have a logo over here on
the left hand side, it lines up very
nicely with the pictures underneath.
And then over here on the other side,
we have some text which lines up with
these two images here underneath.
As we go to the tablet version, you see
some of that continues to hold true.
And then finally, in the mobile version,
we'll have the text on top and
we'll have the logo underneath.
So that is the kind of thing that I'm
looking for if you are New to CSS.
If you're not new to CSS, or you wanna
try a little bit more of a challenge,
what I'd like for
you to do is to try this type of layout.
And this is there's the text
is sloping very nicely right
alongside of the logo here.
This is something called CSS shapes and
it allows you to float your logo and
then your CSS shapes to
dictate how that text is going to
swoop down the side of the logo.
So rather than you probably using Flexbox
where you're putting the logo in one
box and the text in the other, here
you're gonna have to have the text with
a logo floated and then you CSS shapes to
drive that a little bit of a curve here.
Then we're going to go to our tablet,
which will maintain that type of layout
and then finally our mobile layout.
You can just stick the the logo up on top.
So how did you do on the mission?
It was a little bit challenging.
Let me go through the version
of this with the CSS shapes.
I've given you the final state of both
of these Inside of the GitHub files,
this is chapter 4, this is 4B the mission.
And you'll find an end state folder and
an end alt folder.
The end alt folder is got
the Flexbox answer in it and
then I'm showing you here
the one with the shapes.
Okay, so the HTML for
this is pretty straightforward.
Once again, I'm using the section tag,
I'm using an ID,
could easily have used a class as well,
but
I used the ID cuz this is kinda
of the ID for my whole section.
That's the name of the section.
It's the mission section.
And then I have my h2, our mission.
And then after that,
I have a with a class of mission text.
Inside of that I have a paragraph and
I have an image here with a class of
mission image and the text all after that.
So that image is inside of the paragraph
with the rest of the text.
And that's pretty much all there is to
know about this particular HTML and
the more interesting part
is over here in the CSS.
So let's scroll on down.
So here are the mission styles.
And we start here inside
of our mobile layout.
We have the, right, given the section
a little bit of margin on the bottom,
we have the mission text itself set to
display block with a line height of 1.7
just to give a little bit of
breathing room in between the text.
And then the image I set a max
height on it of 100 pixels and
I set it to display block.
By setting the mission
image to display block and
setting the mission text to display block,
that ensures they will stack on top of
each other at mobile dimensions,
that's exactly what we want.
So then we get to our
tablet dimension here,
we have my current favorite tip ever.
So clearing floats has
always been a problem.
Anytime you float something on the page,
you pull it out of the normal flow and
you tell it to go somewhere else on
the page and the remaining elements text
whatever there is flows around the float,
that's the way it's supposed to work.
The problem is you probably seen before
in your own code sometimes weird layout
things happen and
you don't understand what's going on and
the whole thing blew up and
all you did was say float left.
It's very annoying.
Anytime that happens it's because
you haven't cleared your float.
So that's the clear property or
there's a lot of other techniques
that will also clear afloat.
But this is the coolest thing ever.
It's a brand new thing.
You can use this property,
display, flow, hyphen, route.
That will automatically
clear all of the floats that
are contained within that
particular part of your web page.
So that's all I did.
I set up a display a flow
route to clear that and and
the max width of 900 pixels just to
keep the text shorter on the page.
This next part I'm gonna
have to demonstrate for you.
This is the actual shape
outside portion of this.
And I'll walk you through exactly how to
put this in place because this is a very
cool little bit of code.
And we can do this through browser
tools inside of Firefox to set this up.
So I'll show you that in just a second.
I also gave my mission image
a max height of 211 pixels.
All right, so let's go through that then.
So when I open this up in
my browser window here and
I'm going to put on my developer tools,
now the important part here is that
you do this in Firefox not in Chrome.
Because Firefox has got the developer
tools for working with shape outside and
Chrome does not.
So in your developer tools here,
we can go into our mission.
And we can go into the mission text,
see it how that's marked as flow route.
And then over here under our paragraph,
we click on the image here.
And then inside of your CSS rules,
see here where it says shape outside.
And it's got a funny little
diagram right next to it.
When you click that, it will show it
right here in your browser window.
So you can grab these points and
you can pull them around on the page.
So if you wanted to do something weird and
crazy like that,
you could absolutely do that.
You could change the surround
however you want.
And notice that Firefox is very helpfully
updating all of that code for you.
So as I said in the notes for
this particular exercise,
what I recommend that you do
is start with a line of code.
You can just go to MDN and copy the
existing line of code that they give you
by default so
you have something to start with here.
Drop it into CSS so just paste it in
your missing images of shape outside and
then you can just drag these
little points around and so forth.
The interesting part about working
with shape outside is that it is
very much based on the size
of the image itself.
So you noticed I gave you two logos.
One logo went with the alt version of it,
it was very tightly cropped.
This version I had a lot of space
to the right of this and that is so
that I have some room to play around with
these shape outside properties here.
If I didn't have all of this extra room,
I couldn't be pulling this point out so
far, there we go right there.
So see how that clipped off right
there as I pulled that point way
across the page and then the text
sort of looks a little bit odd now.
That's because I exceeded
the width of that image and
text is now wrapping around
that particular point.
So you might need to play around with
your images to give you whatever width
you're going to need to make
shape outside work for you.
Once you've generated that,
then you just come to your browser tools,
copy whatever it is that Firefox tells
you and paste that into your CSS.
So that's the best way to set this up.